Current candidate: Hybrid Launcher V1 / 0.4.2. See docs/KEEPER-HYBRID-V1.md.
The dated sections below preserve evidence for their named historical versions.

Cyclops Keeper 0.3.1 release checks - 2026-10-06

Environment: Linux, Python 3.12, Node.js, Codex in-app browser.
Python: 51 tests passed in the candidate and extracted release package.
Node: 10 presence checks and 2 sound checks passed in both trees.
JavaScript syntax check: passed.

Terminal coverage: Unicode and ASCII; truecolour and 256-colour layers;
bounded output; stale and unavailable observation; independent full-key
routes; approval and compaction poses; matching late returns after SessionEnd;
keyboard controls and terminal restoration. Additional pseudo-terminal review
confirmed q, Escape, SIGINT and SIGTERM restore input attributes, cursor and
alternate screen. Render bounds were checked from 1x1 through 500x100.

Browser flow: loopback fixture panel loads -> woven form and observed status
appear -> Sound: Off changes to Sound: Soft, then back to Off.
Page identity, meaningful content, absence of error overlays, console health,
visual evidence and control response passed. Desktop 1280x720 and mobile
390x844 were checked; mobile content fitted without horizontal overflow.
Stop replay completed with zero queued gestures and retained unresolved calls.
Tiny 32x32 active and stale pages loaded with their respective accessible
labels and no console errors; tiny relation and hollow-aperture drawing also
received an independent Canvas review.

Media: keeper-browser.png is a browser capture of disposable fixtures.
keeper-terminal.png is a preview rendered from actual Unicode/ANSI terminal
frames, rather than a native terminal screenshot. Fixtures are labelled in
the browser. Neither medium measures compositor or terminal presentation FPS.

Public package: fixed file list, no runtime activity records, caches, symlinks,
personal filesystem paths or Git history. Archive contents were compared
byte-for-byte after extraction. Files use mode 0644, directories 0755 and
the keeper launcher 0755; archive owner metadata is generic.

Limits: this is local fixture and package validation. A fresh live Codex hook
installation, macOS and other terminal fonts were not exercised in this run.
Dense relation scenes can redraw more slowly. Five-sample median renderer
CPU timings for a 100x32 Focus frame were about 15.5 ms idle, 59.6 ms for
32 tools plus 32 branches, and 351.6 ms for 256 tools plus 256 branches;
these measurements are not end-to-end presentation rates.

Reproduce from the extracted release root:
  python3 -B -m unittest discover -s tests -v
  node tests/test_presence.mjs
  node tests/test_sound.mjs
  node --check plugins/cyclops-keeper/assets/keeper.js

Cyclops Keeper 0.4.0 checks - 2026-10-06
- Cyclops Link V1 conformance from the vendored fixtures (derivation, records, views), the privacy fixture reproduced
  exactly through the real hook (record equal to the fixture's expect_record; no forbidden substring in either Link file).
- Worker: heartbeat while the host lives, truthful end on host exit, SessionEnd and switch-off, 60 s grace then removal,
  no end claimed without a known host. Reach is never computed while its switch is off.
- Three-way run on one machine with stand-in codex/agy host processes and Spark's real helper: three records in one room,
  threads spark->keeper and keeper->prism, heartbeats fresh past 15 s, all three ended truthfully.

Cyclops Keeper 0.4.1 launcher candidate — validation, 2026-10-07

Result: candidate ready for review; not promoted or activated in the live shell.
The custom Codex build was stopped. Its clean source snapshot and findings remain
preserved. The installed CLI is still codex-cli 0.161.0, reached through the ordinary
~/.local/bin/codex -> ~/.codex/packages/standalone/current/bin/codex launcher.
No Codex source, live plugin, shell startup file, update pointer or live config was
modified by this launcher work. The public Keeper source checkout remains clean.

Implementation
- A separate codex-keeper executable and reversible, current-shell Bash function.
- --keeper: larger Focus view; --keeper-side: right-hand window; --keeper-top: top view.
- Only the selected Keeper flag is consumed; other arguments retain exact values/order.
  Option values and the literal -- boundary are preserved. Conflicting views are refused.
- Ordinary calls immediately exec the installed Codex. The installed symlink is resolved
  each time, so normal updates continue to select the current executable.
- Existing Keeper 0.4.0 renderer, Cyclops Link and consent switches are retained.
- Trusted SessionStart sends only a session hash and read-only project directory handle
  over a private, per-launch local socket. A random launch capability, uid and host process
  lineage constrain the receipt. No latest-session/cwd identity inference is used.
- Process start identities and attachment generations guard PID and directory-handle reuse.
- One-time window activation; closing Keeper leaves Codex running; Codex exit closes Keeper.
  Same-terminal duplicate launches and repeated flags cannot create extra panels.

Verified automated checks
- Python: 92 tests passed, 37.981 seconds, including 13 launcher tests.
- Node: 12 existing presence/sound tests passed; renderer JavaScript syntax passed.
- Bash syntax: wrapper, separate executable and installer passed.
- Launcher tests cover exact arguments, wrong launch capabilities, privacy, no latest-file
  fallback, closed/recycled directory handles, PTY resizing, terminal restoration, refusal
  of existing shell customisations, disappearing X11 windows, safe dead-owner cleanup,
  duplicate launch refusal, owned-child death guard and conventional signal exit status.
- A shell fixture verified normal update command forwarding, following an updated executable
  symlink and full wrapper removal. It did not perform an actual Codex software update.

Desktop / installed-host checks
Linux GNOME Terminal on X11; installed unmodified Codex 0.161.0. A disposable CODEX_HOME
contained the candidate plugin, installed using Codex's own plugin command. No credentials
were copied. One local dummy-provider turn triggered the actual SessionStart hook; no
external model call or production task was run. Vetted local hook trust was bypassed only
inside that disposable test home. Normal public installation retains Codex's hook review.
Both the default local host and explicit --no-daemon routes passed:
- Keeper received initial focus; selecting another window did not trigger repeated focus.
- The session pin matched the actual hook's hashed activity record and SessionStart transition.
- Keeper's actual project directory matched the host project supplied by the hook.
- Closing the renderer left Codex alive. Ending Codex removed the owned runtime instance,
  closed the Keeper window and restored the original Codex terminal attributes.

Additional desktop fixtures used the actual launcher and GNOME windows with a stand-in
Codex host, not an AI session. Both side and top matched the desktop work area, resized
successfully, and created one panel from duplicate flags. Codex-first shutdown and launcher
SIGKILL left no living owned children or runtime instance. Two simultaneous launches in
the same folder retained separate exact session pins; closing one Keeper left both Codex
hosts and the other Keeper alive. The test desktop's original focus was restored afterward.

Limits and retained observations
- Validated platform: Bash, Linux, GNOME Terminal, X11. Other terminals, Wayland and macOS
  are outside this candidate. No native Codex UI or /keeper slash commands are added.
- Codex 0.161 queues SessionStart until the first turn. Keeper explicitly says unattached
  until its trusted receipt arrives. A shared/remote host lacking the private link stays
  unattached; the launcher does not silently alter daemon settings or infer identity.
- A hard kill may prevent source-terminal restoration. Normal exits and supervised signals
  restore it; reset is available after a hard kill. The renderer restores its own terminal
  when it observes owner death. SIGKILL cannot promise universal cleanup if every participant
  is killed simultaneously. Persistent zero-byte per-terminal lock files are intentional;
  active ownership ends automatically when the process closes its descriptor.
- An earlier full-suite run had one intermittent existing concurrent-writer test failure
  (12 of 16 receipts observed). The unchanged baseline's isolated check passed; final full
  candidate checks passed. Storage or timing causation was not established, and no guard or
  timeout was weakened. GUI harness assertions were corrected to wait for placement and
  completed resizing, rather than sampling the initial window/intermediate dimensions.
- Independent code review found and verified fixes for shell restoration, directory-handle
  races, vanished windows and owner cleanup; final review reported no material blockers.

Storage and promotion boundary
All large/disposable source copies and generated test state remained on the designated HDD.
Initial estimate <20 MiB; Codex's disposable plugin catalog increased the completed run to
106 MiB, with 476 GiB free. No credentials, transcripts or raw test startup output are in the
release candidate. Only selected source, checks and sanitized results are preserved here.
The native scratch tree and this test run have not been deleted; they are retirement
candidates for a separate decision. Candidate activation is still a review/promotion step.

Reproduce source checks with TMPDIR set to your development scratch directory:
  python3 -B -m unittest discover -s tests -v
  node --test tests/test_presence.mjs tests/test_sound.mjs
  node --check plugins/cyclops-keeper/assets/keeper.js
  bash -n keeper-shell.sh codex-keeper install.sh

Manual desktop acceptance after installing the reviewed candidate:
  source ./keeper-shell.sh
  codex --keeper -C /path/to/project
Wait for the first trusted session hook, check the attached status, select another window,
resize Keeper, then close Keeper and confirm Codex continues. Repeat with --keeper-side and
--keeper-top; exit Codex first and confirm its companion closes. keeper_shell_off restores
the ordinary shell command. No shell startup file needs editing.

Hybrid Launcher V1 / 0.4.2: 112 Python checks and 12 renderer/sound checks passed; actual Codex 0.161.0 smoke passed window/side/top. See docs/KEEPER-HYBRID-V1.md for fixture boundaries, clipboard acceptance, resource sample, limits and rollback.
